# 2021-07-02 #

### RDB Structure ###
We are considering the structure of the database -- the database tables, the table fields and their data types. For the mean time we've come up with the structure below

```sql
# Table `User`
CREATE TABLE `User` (
	ID INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
	USERNAME VARCHAR (20),
	PASSWORD VARCHAR (64),
	EMAIL VARCHAR (255),
	IS_VERIFIED BOOLEAN,
	DATE_CREATED DATETIME,
	PRIMARY KEY (ID)
);

# Table `Poll`
CREATE TABLE `Poll` (
	ID INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
	QUESTION TEXT,
	CREATOR INT,
	IS_PUBLIC BOOLEAN,
	EXPIRY_DATE DATETIME,
	PARTICIPANT_LIMIT INT,
	DATE_CREATED DATETIME,
	PRIMARY KEY (ID),
	FOREIGN KEY CREATOR REFERENCES (User.ID)
);
```

The fields, `IS_VERIFIED` and `DATE_CREATED`, for the user should be used for account verification when a new user creates an account. Just like most web services, poller should be able to verify a user's account upon registration by sending the user an email containing a verification link. If the user does not click on the verification link within 24 hours upon arrval, the verfication link would expire and the user's account (record) would be cleared from the database. If the user clicks on the verification link (before its expiry date) then the `IS_VALIDATED` field of the corresponding user should be set to `true`.

### Flat-File DB Structure ###
We are considering the following database layout for the poll records.

```
/
	data/
		polls/
			<poll_id>/
				options.json
				analysis.json
				data.json
```

The `options.json` file would hold the poll's options, the `analysis.json` would hold the poll's (analysed) data, and the `data.json` file would hold the (answered) polls data. for example:

Suppose there was a poll put up by a user and the poll had the structure below

```
What is your hobby?
+---------------------+
| Enter your hobby    |
+---------------------+
```

The poll's `options.json` file would look like this
```json
[
	{
		"type": "input",
		"placeholder": "Enter your hobby",
		"regex": "^[0-9a-zA-Z]{1}$"
	}
]
```

The dynamic data that would be received from those answering this poll would be stored in the `data.json` file

After the creator of the poll has checked on the poll, the `analysis.json` would hold statistical analysis conducted on the poll (based on the contents of `data.json`)

### Poll URL Scheme/Pattern ###
Typically, polls can be accessed using the url path `poll/<poll_id>`, where `poll_id` is the `ID` of the respective poll.

If a poll is made private, the poll should only be accessible with a url path created from signing the poll's id with the creator's username.

Illustration
```
# public poll URL path
/poll/1

# private poll URL path
/poll/7df963c10c258ae770c962e7e54f8cdb
```

For private polls, `hash_fn(String(poll.id) + creator.username)` would take the place of `poll_id` in `/poll/<poll_id>`, where `hash_fn(...)` is an arbitrary hashing function.

Also, any attempt to visit `/poll/<poll_id>`, where `poll_id` is the `ID` of a private poll, should yield a 404 error or a 'Private poll' message/page
